You have already implemented
forward propagation,
back propagation,
and gradient descent to train
the neural network of a
continuous bag of words model.
But how do you get
the word embeddings out of
your trained neural nets?
As you may remember,
word embedding,
are not directly outputs
by the training process.
They are a byproduct
of the process.
I'll now explain
how you can extract
word embeddings from
a trained neural net.
Remember, these are vectors
that carry the
meaning of the words
of the vocabulary based on
the context words in the corpus.
Once you've trained
your neural network,
after iterating through all of
your training data
possibly several times,
you can extract three
alternative word
embedding representations.
The first possibility is
to consider each column of
W_1 as the column vector
embedding vector of a
word of the vocabulary.
Recall that matrix W_1
has v number of columns,
so it has one column for
each word in the vocabulary.
The mapping between
columns of W_1 and words,
uses the same order
as the input rows.
For example, with the corpus,
I am happy because
I'm learning and the
five rows of the input
vector or matrix
corresponds to m because
happy, I, and learning.
Then in W_1 your
first column will be
the word embedding
column vector for m,
the second for
because and so forth.
The second option to extract
word embeddings is
to use each row
of W_2 as the word
embedding row vector for
the corresponding word.
Matrix W_2 has v rows,
one row for each word
in the vocabulary.
Again, the order is the
same as the input
vector or matrix.
So with our sample
corpus and inputs,
the first row would be the word
embedding row vector for m,
the second for because and so on.
The third and final
option is to take
the average of the two
previous representations.
So if you want the word
embedding column vectors,
you would average W_1 and
the transpose of
W_2 to obtain W_3,
a new n by v matrix.
You can then extract the
word embedding vectors from
each column of W_3 as
you did previously.
So with our visual example,
the word embedding for m
would be the first column of W_3,
which would be the average of
the values of the first column
of W_1 and of the
first row of W_2.
In this week's assignment,
you'll be averaging
W_1 transpose and
W_2 to extracts the word
embeddings as row vectors.
Now that you know how to
train these word vectors,
in next week's video,
you'll learn how to test them.
Specifically, you
will learn about
two types of evaluation metrics.
The first type is
intrinsic evaluation
and the second type is
extrinsic evaluation.